the easiest way to really scale
sponsorship on a global level is it
doing it yourself and encouraging your
your peers to also sponsor and then
telling those stories of sponsorship so
as you sponsor people tell how they
you've been impacted by that how they've
been impacted by Your sponsorship and
the more people tell the stories the
more common sponsorship will feel and
become so I think that's the best way
for this entire concept to run inclusive
sponsorship to scale
welcome to 20 minute leaders just sit
back relax and learn from the leaders of
today it's a journey each one is
different unique inspiring let's get
started
[Music]
20-minute leaders is a proud supporter
of Make-a-Wish Israel and Tech to peace
and is in proud collaboration with
secret Court Ventures J Ventures
Riverside fam Fusion VC Birthright Excel
J impact leap Google for startups and
hippo and in media partnership with ctec
[Music]
it's great to have you all the way from
DC and uh talking about you know your
journey and inclusion diversity empathy
health care and everything in between
and starting with your journey I'd love
to hear a little bit about you know what
you know the different big Milestones or
big events that shaped who you are your
look on life your look on workplace and
what's important and the different
things that you are really passionate
about today which we'll uncover soon and
so again thank you for being here tell
me a little bit about yourself and what
was your journey like yeah so probably
to start the biggest impact I think
that's had on my life and my journey is
that I actually grew up as a military
brat so my father was in the Air Force
for 17 years and what that did was you
know for most people that grew up in
military families having to move every
couple of years having to make new
friends every couple of years having to
assimilate again
um I think that actually creates a sense
of resilience in you as a child and
there was a point in time where we were
stationed overseas in Italy it was the
first time we lived outside of the
country
the first time we really got exposed to
other cultures and even though my father
worked on base we lived in the community
and that was something that had a
profound impact on my appreciation for
differences for different cultures for
inclusion just living in a different
country and having to be not just the
new kid on the Block right but also just
in a new community overall and that's
where the seed was planted around my
personal passion around inclusion and
diversity and then fast forwarding to my
career I started my career in banking
spent two years working in retail
Banking and hated it right and I thought
that's what I wanted to do and a mentor
of mine actually sat me down and said
you know I know you're at this
Crossroads you thought this is what you
wanted to do in your career why don't
you try Consulting and you can develop
new skills you can try new Industries
and so I made that switch into
Consulting and found Health Care as
something that I am deeply passionate
about and of course like many of your
listeners I had family members that had
challenging health issues and so wanting
to impact Health Care from the business
perspective using my Consulting skills
was really important so I had some
really impactful mentors along the way
that gave me really great advice about
how to find my purpose and my passion
how to develop the right skills to be
effective in my role and then that kind
of guided me towards where I am today
I've spent over a decade in health care
and I had grown very three
passionate about people and finding
great leaders for healthcare
organizations one of the people that I
think really you know accelerated my
career is a sponsor of mine at my former
company Atrium Health who really got me
my first executive promotion and it was
something that planted a seed inside of
me of wanting to pay it forward to
others and give other you know Rising
leaders people of color women
opportunities to thrive so I decided to
make my own personal commitment to
sponsor women of color in healthcare and
give them opportunities whether it's
speaking engagements you know
opportunities to serve on boards
promotion opportunities it was something
that I felt was really important as an
executive to do and that led me to
ultimately becoming an executive
recruiter because I married my
Consulting skills with my passion for
people and wanting to place Rising
talent in you know really impactful
executive roles across Healthcare so
that Journey really was important from
you know being in a military family
where you got to see different cultures
to having really impactful mentors and
sponsors who gave me great guidance and
then following my passion Around Talent
is how I ended up to where I am today
wow so tell me a little bit about sort
of the the the the landscape that we're
in so leading up to to the to the way
that you're helping promote women of
color to Executive positions what is
sort of the landscape that we have right
now that even makes this something that
you need to do yeah
well I'm sure many of your listeners
have seen the transition and the
transformation over the past three years
with the events of 2020 not just the
pandemic but of course George Floyd and
Brianna Taylor
um and there was certainly more of a
focus over the last couple of years
around inclusion and finding amazing
talent from underserved population
um and I think we're at a moment where
we are three years in
um post George Floyd where a lot of
organizations while they're on that
Journey are still trying to find their
way to increase representation and
Senior leadership and I'm a big
proponent of Executives really embodying
sponsorship as a leadership competency
so thinking about how as an executive
you know most of us got to that level
with support from someone else whether
they nominated or recommended us for a
role or
um you know talk to others about our you
know our essence of leadership and gave
us opportunities and I think we
absolutely need to pay it back if we're
going to create a pipeline for Teacher
leaders so I do think it's important for
anyone that's listening whether you are
an executive today or someone that
aspires to be an executive to think
about how are you identify the next
layer of talent whether it's someone a
person of color a woman there's still
opportunities for us to create greater
diversity in senior leadership and so
taking that responsibility and
accountability for that is absolutely
key
so tell me a little bit about the
sponsorship and what does that actually
mean I'm not familiar with so what yeah
with the way it works yeah so mentorship
is
um probably the one term that most
people are familiar with so usually we
talk about mentorship and sponsorship
together mentorship
um is really about finding someone
that's going to give you advice so just
like the story that I shared about a
mentor kind of guiding me for my career
giving me some ideas of where I could go
they're there to offer you career advice
to be a safe space for you to talk to
about anything that you're struggling
with professionally or personally and
their whole role is just to be there to
support you by guiding you a sponsor is
someone that is your advocate so it is
someone that is of a position of
influence power that can open doors for
you so Michael let's say that you have a
goal of
um having a bigger platform for your
podcast and you reach out to someone in
your network and you ask them for either
an introduction to someone in their
Network that can really provide that
platform for you or maybe they might say
you know what I know of someone who is
doing a major conference and they would
love to like hear you speak or host your
podcast there to give you greater
exposure and visibility so they're
really taking action on your behalf to
again connect you with others that can
help you you know achieve your career
goals and it's more focused on the
outcome right so they're focused on
giving you access to a greater
visibility in your career
yeah no that means that makes a ton of
sense so tell me about the book that you
wrote inclusive sponsorship a bold
Vision to advance women of color in the
workplace what what is the structure of
the book and and what in what ways did
you or you bring this to life there
yeah and again the impetus behind the
book was by career journey and having
impactful sponsors that really opened
doors for me and inclusive sponsorship
is really about thinking broadly about
who you decide to sponsor yourself it's
really aimed at two audiences one being
Executives who might be looking to
sponsor talent and then Rising Talent
who are looking to find sponsors right
so it's a great book to be able to merge
those two topics together
um so the structure of the book talks
about my journey again from my career
it also talks about you know the ways
that you can identify great sponsors I
talk about
um you know how you can become sponsor
ready and also what I consider to be the
sponsorship Manifesto which is again the
framework behind what sponsorship really
should be about being generous being
able to believe in someone's potential
um being very inclusive in who you
sponsor so not always finding someone
that looks and feels like yourself
um and then taking risk right because
sponsorship in comparison to mentorship
is certainly a little bit more of a risk
care proposition because you're putting
your name behind someone but encouraging
people to take risks and really support
those that they believe in their
potential
I love it do you have a some some
anecdote or story to share from a
personal experience other of yourself or
someone that you've that you've worked
with that that would bring this to life
sort of this whole sponsorship mentality
yes and actually I was talking to one of
uh the people that I sponsored years ago
um her name is Priya betheja she's a
really great friend and we've gotten to
know each other each other over the past
few years
um and essentially she was looking to
you know expand her personal brand and
she's got a fantastic brand um on social
media especially on LinkedIn and even
Beyond
um and I introduced her to someone in my
network Scott Becker who runs a podcast
um and he likes to have and host
um a whole you know diversity of leaders
who are in and around health care and I
introduced her to him and she's been on
his podcast five times and has spoken at
Several of his events and he's been a
guest speaker and one of the classes
that she teaches as an adjunct professor
and so again just a small Act of making
an introduction to someone in my network
has created several opportunities for
her to continue to further her brand and
get more visibility and now she's an
entrepreneur and she hasn't an even
bigger platform so that's what really
brings it to life it's being able to
connect people it's being able to again
use your own political and Social
Capital to help someone else achieve
their goals whatever those goals might
be
and so what are the what are the things
that you're keeping in mind as you're
thinking about the ways to make an
impact through these relationships and
through these Endeavors that are Beyond
just mentorship or the sort of the
standard mentorship that we did we think
of in the in the day today what are the
you know the key pillars that you think
are are making this unique
or or a different mind yeah I think it's
um you know part of what I talk about in
the book and one of the things that I
think as Executives we need to be
thinking about is Shifting our Focus for
mentorship to sponsorship and I think
many of us are very flattered when we're
asked to mentor and we enjoy it it's a
you know intrinsic thing that we like to
do but I think if we're really going to
move the needle in creating diversity
across the board whether it's senior
leadership all the way throughout the
organization we have to be willing to
take action and that's really the the
kind of Battle Cry that I have in the
book is it's more about being able to
take action to influence outcomes so if
that means giving someone a promotion
again that has you know Rising talent
that comes from an underserved
population
um whatever that action might be
encouraging people to do that and so
shifting from thinking about guidance
and offering your Sage advice to someone
to now okay I'm going to take action on
their behalf half I'm going to speak
about them in rooms that they don't have
access to that's really where as Leaders
we need to shift our Focus
so it's so it's uh so I guess the the
distilling it a lot of it is about being
one and very intentional but also being
very action oriented so you want to have
skin in the game and you want to start
taking action to actually make it make
the reality happen and not just give
guidance and advice to uh to to those
other people right which you know that
just has its limits it stops at some
point
that's right absolutely
so tell me a little bit about you know
what is it about it that you that makes
the youth so fulfilled I mean there's a
lot of things that that one can do
you're you're you've your it makes you
so fulfilled that you've written a book
about it that you're so passionate about
where does this passion really come from
for you
you know I think
um when I think about what drives me one
of the reasons why I got into Healthcare
is because I do have very much a mission
orientation and focus and wanting to uh
give back and wanting to see others
succeed wanting to somehow have the
ability to have fingerprints on helping
someone else be successful I think I
have this intrinsic drive around helping
others and a lot of people in healthcare
decide to get into healthcare for that
very reason so I think that's what
really has driven me to
want to help other women specifically
women of color that don't have the same
opportunities as others to succeed as
well
um I also think because I love working
and supporting non-profit organizations
and also giving back those that through
line of how do how can I make the
biggest impact and difference and that's
the way that I think I've been most
successful is being able to help others
be successful
I love it so so where are you on your
journey right now
yes well
um I a couple years ago I actually
started a career initiative called 100
by 2030 and it's around this whole
concept of sponsorship and I made a
commitment to sponsor a hundred women of
color uh by 2030 and as of today I have
sponsored 42
um which has been great and seeing them
succeed and seeing them doing amazing
things across the industry and I'm only
in year three so I'm gonna try to
achieve that goal before 2030 because I
think we need great talent today but
that's where I'm in my journey and I
continue to serve as a mentor of course
but also really stepping into sponsoring
others
so how do you balance sponsoring 42
different people at the same time how
does that how does that work
well you have to be like you said very
intentional right
um and really what I did was I looked in
my network and I found women who I knew
um very well I knew of their potential
and I tried to do small access
sponsorship and again make a lot of
introductions to people in my network
um nominating them for speaking
engagements nominating them for Awards
in the industry and I get a lot of joy
out of doing that and so for me it
doesn't feel like work it just feels
like an extension of what I like to do
I love that and so if we're looking at a
bigger Vision here how do we how do we
scale this so obviously everything that
you're talking about is very impactful
it impacts the individual on a pretty
massive level I I'd love to understand a
little bit about maybe the Snowball
Effect or the butterfly effect of this
and how how do you see this scale and
grow because you're already thinking
about scale just by virtue of doing the
100 by 2030 so so let's talk a little
bit about scaling this yeah the the
easiest way to scale this honestly is
for every single person to make their
own commitment of sponsorship and that
doesn't mean that you have to sponsor a
hundred people you should find a number
that's meaningful to you whether it's 5
or 10 or maybe just one person that you
can practice being a sponsor for
um and paying it forward and I think
that that is the easiest way to really
scale sponsorship on a on a global level
is it doing it yourself and encouraging
your your peers to also sponsor and then
telling those stories of sponsorship so
as you sponsor people tell how they
you've been impacted by that how they've
been impacted by Your sponsorship I
think stories can be so engaging and
enriching and connecting us and the more
people tell the stories the more common
sponsorship will feel and become so I
think that's the best way for this
entire concept to run inclusive
sponsorship to scale
is it and when you're looking at these
different people that that you're
working with what is sort of the paid
forward that that that that that word
that you would expect now so if we're
talking about sort of a snowball and I'm
sure that a lot of the different women
that you've helped and would now have
the motivation and they want yes to go
and and pay it forward
and do you see it happening is there are
there oh absolutely absolutely I think
there's such a positive momentum when it
when when you're sponsored by someone
and you've been able to be successful
and you want to do that for others
um almost every single woman that I've
sponsored as part of this pledge that I
made has gone forward and sponsored
other women in their own right many of
them had made their own pledges of
sponsorship but some of them just said
you know what I'm going to call up my
mentee who I've been mentoring for five
years and now move towards being a
sponsor for him or her
um so there's something you know about
it whether you caught a butterfly domino
effect that happens when you have
someone support and it's completely
unconditional I don't expect any of the
women that I sponsored to necessarily do
something for me I would rather them do
something for for others and be able to
see that through
um so there's there's something special
about being sponsored and then feeling
that motivation to sponsor other it's
very natural
yeah 100 Jamie I'd really want to thank
you for spending this time with me this
was a really enjoyable and and uh and I
think that obviously the work that
you're doing in your day job is is
incredible but the the way that you're
treating
a mentorship and sponsorship to help you
know promote women of color here in this
specific situation but I but this you
know it transcends you know and a bunch
of different scenarios in which we have
underserved populations in different
locations around the world that that
would benefit from having somebody
identify their potential put skin in the
game and say I'm going to be I'm going
to be an act for that person I'm going
to be a stand for this person and yeah
and and help them fulfill their
potential and obviously I think that an
interesting question there is how do you
get this on a global level and scaling
this and so uh Jamie thank you very very
much for the time here uh continue
having an inspiring journey and thank
you for joining me
absolutely thank you so much this is
great
thank you
[Music]